---
title: "What's the Deal With Board Games"
date: 2024-06-19T10:45:40-04:00
image: images/game-night-01-19-23.jpeg
author:
 name: Andrew Kennedy
 bio:
categories:
  - board games
draft: false
---

What's The Deal With Board Games?

So are you here wondering why there is a group that is dedicated to board
games? Well the simple answer is that board games are fun and participating in
a shared interest with others is enjoyable. But the long answer is far more
revealing and interesting.

Like many other adults, I grew up playing games like Monopoly, Risk, Uno, Life,
Trivial Pursuit, Connect Four, Chutes & Ladders, Hungry Hungry Hippos, Chess,
Checkers, Dominoes and many more. However, many of those games have less than
stellar memories for many adults that played games in their younger days myself
included. On top of those memories the games themselves lacked a level of
stimulation and engagement except for a handful of them, which leads people to
walk away and think why would there be such an interest in games later in life.

Well the games that you may encounter in a gaming group such as ours, you won't
necessarily find on the shelf of everyday retail stores. That is because most
board game companies can't get access to those big retail stores because the
retail stores requirements. So people that do discover games that aren't found
in retail stores find that it can be quite a different experience in a good way
when you sit around a table with 4-5 others.

Now you might be thinking what is the difference between what the retail stores
offer and what you can find elsewhere. It all comes down to 1 question, do you
want to play the game again? To clarify I've played all the above games more
times than my memory can recall nowadays. But 1 thing I do recall about each of
them, I don't recall completing one of them and wanting to play it again right
away. When it comes to games that you can find today if you look many are
created with that thought in mind, do you want to play it again immediately.
They also take into consideration is time constraints, the majority of games
you will find play in a 1-2 hour time period. So if you are familiar with it
you can play it again in an afternoon.

One of the biggest things though that differentiates the games of what you
remember and the games you could find is the amount choices that will control
your winning and losing in the game. The games we grew up on and what most
people remember playing only had 1 or 2 things that ultimately had any great
impact on whether you won or not. Much of the time it didn't actually involve
much engagement on the player's behalf. Many of the games that you will find in
groups such as ours will have 3-4 things to engage with that can have subtle
impacts on your outcome in the game rather than just one.

At the end of the day though the most important factor for me is sitting around
a table and engaging with others of all age groups and backgrounds with
friendly quips, competition, and celebration of a well played game. Which much
of today's entertainment media can separate us from that friendly human
interaction. There's also a game for everybody because if you have an interest
in a particular topic or theme so do others. As a closing example there is a
game about competing weather forecasters.

So if you're interested in finding a game for you or seeing what the deal is
with board games and not sure where to start come join us on a game night.
